---
layout: default
title: Moss Patches
---

Moss Patches
===========

Moss Patches are zip files that can be loaded into Moss. Moss Patches enable
users to customize Moss to their liking and to easily share their customizes
with others.

Moss Patches consist of a Moss configuration file, a manifest.txt file and
any other resource that you need such as images or fonts. The files are
zipped together and the zip archive is renamed with an .mpk extension.

Customizing Moss
----------------

These instructions are written for a Linux user who has a little experience
with the command line. If someone is is interested in writing up instructions
for other OSs, or instructions that are not command line based I'd be happy to
link to them.

First create a directory for our work.

{% highlight bash %}

mkdir mypatch
cd mypatch

{% endhighlight %}

Next we add a manifest.txt file to our patch. The manifest tells Moss what the
name of the patch is and it gives a short description. In the future, more
options will be availble.

{% highlight bash %}

echo "name: mypatch" >> manifest.txt
echo "config-file: mossrc" >> manifest.txt
echo "description: My device the way I like it." >> manifest.txt

{% endhighlight %}

The next step is to create our mossrc file. If you are familiar with conky you
will be comfortable with moss. 

{% include default.conf.html %}

Finally we can zip the entire patch up with the `mpk` extension.

{% highlight bash %}

cd ..
zip -r mypatch.mpk mypatch

{% endhighlight %}

The resulting `mypatch.mpk` can be downloaded through you device's browser or
it can be copied to your device's external storage and opened with a file
manager.


More Examples
-------------

More Moss Patches can be found on the [Samples](Samples.html) page or on the
[moss-configs][moss-configs] repository on [github][github]. Take a look there
to get more ideas on how to include background images or custom fonts. You can
download and unzip them to take a look. 

[github]: http://www.github.com
[moss-configs]: http://www.github.com/teneighty/moss-configs
